=pod

=head1 NAME

App::RewriteVersion - A tool to rewrite and bump your Perl module versions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use App::RewriteVersion;
 my $app = App::RewriteVersion->new;
 
 # Options
 $app->verbose(1)->follow_symlinks(0);
 
 # Bump versions for modules in current dist directory
 $app->rewrite_versions($app->bump_version($app->current_version));
 
 # Bump versions in specified dist directory
 $app->rewrite_versions($app->bump_version($app->current_version(dist_dir => $dist_dir)), dist_dir => $dist_dir);
 
 # Override module to read version from
 $app->rewrite_versions($app->bump_version($app->current_version(file => $file)));
 
 # Bump versions in specific subdirectories
 $app->rewrite_versions($app->bump_version($app->current_version), subdirs => ['foo','bar']);
 
 # Custom version bump algorithm
 $app->rewrite_versions($app->bump_version($app->current_version, sub { shift + 0.05 }));
 
 # Don't bump, just synchronize versions with main module
 $app->rewrite_versions($app->current_version);
 
 # Set versions to specified version
 $app->rewrite_versions('0.065');
 
=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<App::RewriteVersion> is a tool for managing Perl module versions in a
distribution. It is heavily based on the L<Dist::Zilla> plugin
L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::RewriteVersion>. Similarly to that plugin, the C<V>
environment variable can be used to override the version detected from the main
module.

Existing version assignments and new versions must be parseable with the same
rules as in L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::RewriteVersion/"DESCRIPTION">, that is to
say, they should either be a decimal number with a single decimal point, or a
tuple version with a leading C<v> and at least 3 segments separated by decimal
points. Version assignments should be in the form C<our $VERSION = '...';>.

See L<perl-rewrite-version> and L<perl-bump-version> for details on
command-line usage.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 allow_decimal_underscore

 my $bool = $app->allow_decimal_underscore;
 $app = $app->allow_decimal_underscore(0);

If true, decimal versions with underscores will be allowed. Defaults to true.
See L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::BumpVersionAfterRelease/"Using underscore in decimal $VERSION">
for more information.

=head2 dry_run

 my $bool = $app->dry_run;
 $app = $app->dry_run(1);

If true, the module will process files as normal but not actually modify them.
Useful with L</"verbose"> to verify expected functionality.

=head2 follow_symlinks

 my $bool = $app->follow_symlinks;
 $app = $app->follow_symlinks(1);

If true, the application will follow symlinked directories when traversing the
distribution for modules. Defaults to false.

=head2 global

 my $bool = $app->global;
 $app = $app->global(1);

If true, the application will replace all version assignments found instead of
just the first instance in each file. Defaults to false.

=head2 verbose

 my $bool = $app->verbose;
 $app = $app->verbose(1);

Enable progress messages to be printed to STDOUT. Defaults to false.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

 my $app = App::RewriteVersion->new;

Construct a new L<App::RewriteVersion> object.

=head2 bump_version

 my $new_version = $app->bump_version($version);
 my $new_version = $app->bump_version($version, sub { $_[0] + 1 });

Increments a version string, returning the new version string. An optional
coderef can be passed for custom version bump logic. The coderef will receive
the current version string as the first argument and is expected to return a
new version string. By default, L<Version::Next> is used. An exception will be
thrown if an invalid version is passed according to the current settings.

=head2 current_version

 my $current_version = $app->current_version;
 my $current_version = $app->current_version(dist_dir => $dist_dir);
 my $current_version = $app->current_version(file => $file);

Returns the current version of the distribution using L</"version_from">. If no
C<file> is passed, the main module filename will be guessed from C<dist_dir>
(defaulting to current working directory), using heuristics similar to
L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::NameFromDirectory> and L<Dist::Zilla/"main_module">. For
example, if the directory is named C<Foo-Bar> it will look for
C<lib/Foo/Bar.pm> within the distribution, and if that doesn't exist, the
shortest module path found. If the C<V> environment variable is set, it will be
returned regardless of other options. An exception will be thrown if no version
is found in the specified or guessed file, or if no perl modules could be
found.

=head2 rewrite_version

 my $bool = $app->rewrite_version($file, $version);
 my $bool = $app->rewrite_version($file, $version, is_trial => $is_trial);

Rewrites the version of the file at C<$file> to C<$version> if it has a version
assignment in the form C<our $VERSION = '...';>. Returns true if the version
was rewritten, or false if no version assignment was found. If C<is_trial> is
true, C<# TRIAL> will be appended to the version assignment line when
rewriting. The C<-TRIAL> indication is not part of the version and should be
added to the name of the archive you upload to PAUSE, which is outside of the
scope of this tool. An exception will be thrown if an invalid version is
passed, or an I/O error occurs. A warning will be printed if C<$version> is
lower than the version previously declared in the file.

=head2 rewrite_versions

 $app = $app->rewrite_versions($version);
 $app = $app->rewrite_versions($version, dist_dir => $dist_dir);
 $app = $app->rewrite_versions($version, is_trial => 1);
 $app = $app->rewrite_versions($version, subdirs => ['lib']);

Rewrites the versions of all perl files found in C<dist_dir> (defaulting to
current working directory) to C<$version> using L</"rewrite_version">. The
C<subdirs> option can be used to specify an arrayref of subdirectories relative
to C<dist_dir> in which versions will be rewritten, otherwise defaulting to
C<lib>, C<script>, and C<bin>. If passed, the C<is_trial> option is passed
through to L</"rewrite_version">. An exception will be thrown if an invalid
version is passed, or an I/O error occurs.

=head2 version_from

 my $version = $app->version_from($file);

Attempts to read version from the file at C<$file>. Returns C<undef> if no
version assignment was found.

=head1 BUGS

Report any issues on the public bugtracker.

=head1 AUTHOR

Dan Book <dbook@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2015 by Dan Book.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::RewriteVersion>, L<Version::Next>

=cut
